HTTP Client Hints.
The idea is for external resources.
We are talking about resource loading.
What if the server can receive data
about the client to make better
decisions about the resource
that it's going to send you?
For example, images.
What if the server knows the pixel density
or the resolution of the current device?
So if you're asking me for an image,
I know if you are on a laptop computer,
if you're on a laptop with a retina
screen, so with more resolution,
if you're on an iPhone,
if you're on an Android, based on that,
without using the picture elements,
so the server will make a decision.
And for that, we can expose data
to the server with a spec
known as HTTP Client Hints.
It's a meta tag that you can
define in the header of your HTML,
actually more than a meta tag,
it's an HTTP header that you can also
express as a meta tag, that's better.
Accept-CH, CH, client hints.
And in the content,
you set a comma-separated list
of properties that you want, okay?
Give me a second.
We can ask today for RTT, Round Trip Time.
So that's the latency.
We can send to the server
the current estimated latency that
we are having, so
the server can decide what to return.
Downlink, that's an estimation
of the bandwidth.
So again,
if the latency is 400 milliseconds,
something's wrong with our connection.
So the server can say, well,
let's return something simpler,
let's increase the experience for
that user.
Does it make sense?
This is the effective connection type,
ECT, effective connection type.
It will give you a string if you are in
2g, 3g, 4g, slow-2g, and that's all.
So there is no 5g or Wi-Fi.
In those cases,
they will give you a 4g, the best one.
Save-Data, that's a boolean
value that will give
you the hint that the user
wants to save data.
What does it mean for you?
It's your problem.
So you can return images in low resolution
if you wanna honor that settings.
Where is the settings?
I will show you what it is,
but on an Android, on Chrome,
for example,
you have a settings Save-Data in the menu.
On iOS, you need to enable that in
your current connection settings
in the Wi-Fi or in your data connection
plan that you have with your carrier,
you can enable Save-Data.
DPR, that's device pixel ratio.
That's the resolution, the pixel density.
Viewport width,
that's the actual width in CSS pixels.
And device memory,
how much memory the device has.
So you can request the client,
the browser,
to send the data to every
resource HTTP request.
That's an HTTP client hint.
Does that make sense?
If you have a lot of work server-side to
do something with the information and
with a hint.
But the idea is to increase
the user experience.
By the way,
the memory is expressed in MiB,
that we know that it's not men in black,
okay, it's mebibytes.
So now you will see that many times.
By the way, so the idea that we
have kilobytes and kibibytes,
it's the only thing that I know that
you will remember from today's course.
That's the only thing you will remember.